4.1 Documentation (#20)
CybercentreCanada/assemblyline4_docs: docs/developer_manual/services/advanced/service_updater_upgrade.md

## What don't I need to implement and why?
### `do_source_update()`
Considering most of our services have the same pattern of:
 1. Establishing a client for Assemblyline using the service_update_account
 2. Iterating over our source list and using either a URL download or Git clone to retrieve signatures
 3. (Optional) If there are rules to be updated, modify the rules before import to add extra metadata or validation
 4. Importing the rules into Assemblyline

 We decided to streamline that process for most services while giving service writers the ability to override certain aspects as needed.

 The service base contains a set of helper functions for retrieving files during the download process. So you'll notice most services don't need to implement their own `do_source_update()`, they just need to implement an `import_update()`. [Safelist](https://github.com/CybercentreCanada/assemblyline-service-safelist) is an example of a service that is an exception to this rule where it does implement it's own `do_source_update()`.

### `do_local_update()`

> This particular function doesn't need to be overridden (but you're free to do so) because it's primary function is retrieve the signature set from Assemblyline and make it accessible to service instances when they ask for signatures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This particular function doesn't need to be overridden (but you're free to do so) because its primary function is to retrieve the signature set from Assemblyline and make it accessible to service instances when they ask for signatures.
```

  generates_signatures: true
  method: run
  run_options:
    allow_internet_access: true
    command: ["python", "-m", "sigma_updater"]
    image: ${REGISTRY}cccs/assemblyline-service-sigma:$SERVICE_TAG
  sources:
    - name: sigma
      pattern: .*windows\/.*\.yml
      uri: https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma.git
  update_interval_seconds: 21600 # Quarter-day (every 6 hours)
```

will now become in 4.1:
```yaml
dependencies:
  updates:
    container:
      allow_internet_access: true
      command: ["python", "-m", "sigma_.update_server"]
      image: ${REGISTRY}cccs/assemblyline-service-sigma:$SERVICE_TAG
      ports: ["5003"]
    run_as_core: True

update_config:
  generates_signatures: true
  sources:
    - name: sigma
      pattern: .*windows\/.*\.yml
      uri: https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma.git
  update_interval_seconds: 21600 # Quarter-day (every 6 hours)
  signature_delimiter: "file"
```

Notes:
 - Source management will still be part of the update_config, but container configuration will be moved to a list of dependencies.
 - `signature_delimiter` indicates how signatures should be separated when downloaded from Assemblyline's Signature API (default: double newline).

>     - In Sigma's case, it gets its list of files of  following form: `/updates/<random_tempdir>/sigma/<source_name>/<signature_name>` where signature_name only contains the signature associated to the name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - In Sigma's case, it gets its list of files in the following form: `/updates/<random_tempdir>/sigma/<source_name>/<signature_name>` where signature_name only contains the signature associated to the name
```

>     - From Sigma's perspective, it gets it's a list of files of the form: `/updates/<random_tempdir>/sigma/<source_name>/<signature_name>` where signature_name only contains the signature associated to the name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - In Sigma's case, it gets its list of files of the following form: `/updates/<random_tempdir>/sigma/<source_name>/<signature_name>` where signature_name only contains the signature associated to the name
```

>     - Under the default delimiter, it would've gotten: `/updates/<random_tempdir>/sigma/<source_name>` where source_name was a compiled list of all signatures from the source separated by double newlines in a single file (which might be fine for some service like YARA and Suricata)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Under the default delimiter, it would get: `/updates/<random_tempdir>/sigma/<source_name>` where source_name is a compiled list of all signatures from the source separated by double newlines in a single file (which might be fine for some service like YARA and Suricata)
```

 - In order for updaters to work, they need to be able to communicate with other core components. So you'll need to enable the dependency to be able to `run_as_core`, otherwise this could lead to issues where the updater isn't able to resolve to components like Redis and/or Elasticsearch by name.

>  - Setting port(s) helps facilitate communication between the service and it's dependency over certain ports and so, as a result, Scaler will create the appropriate NetworkPolicy to ensure communication **only** between a service and its dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Setting port(s) helps facilitate communication between the service and its dependency. As a result, Scaler will create the appropriate NetworkPolicy to ensure communication **only** between a service and its dependencies.
```

"to ensure communication only between" seems wrong to me, but I don't know what it should be.
